README.md, before:

# `quantum`
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Supernomad/quantum.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/Supernomad/quantum) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Supernomad/quantum/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/Supernomad/quantum?branch=develop) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/Supernomad/quantum)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/Supernomad/quantum) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/Supernomad/quantum?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/Supernomad/quantum)

`quantum` is a software defined network device written in go with global networking, security, and auto-configuration at its heart. It leverages the latest distributed data stores and state of the art encryption to offer fully secured end to end global networking over a single cohesive network.

> For more detailed information on the operation and configuration of `quantum` take a look at the [wiki](https://github.com/Supernomad/quantum/wiki).

### Running
`quantum` is designed to be essentially plug and play, however the default configuration will run `quantum` in an insecure mode and assumes each node running quantum is also running its own data store. In reality `quantum` **must** be run with TLS fully setup and configured with the backened datastore, in order to guarantee safe operation.

| Supported Backend Datastores | Supported OS's | Supported Providers |
|:------------------:|:----:|:---------:|
|[etcd](https://github.com/coreos/etcd)  | linux | AWS, GCE, Azure |
| | | Packet, Digital Ocean, Rackspace |
| | | Private datacenters, Private co-locations, and many more |

#### TLS/Security
[Etcd security configuration](https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/security.html) is very well documented and implemented. It is highly recommended to fully read and understand the security setup for etcd before considering quantum for production use. The security provided by `quantum` is intrinsicly linked to the security used by etcd, as the public certificates used for key generation are stored within etcd.

To ensure the secure operation of `quantum` the following must be true:
- Require TLS communication to etcd in all cases
- Etcd is fully secured from unathorized access
- Each server running `quantum` has its own unique TLS client certificate
- For added security each server should also have a unique username/password to access etcd with

> For a minimalistic configuration that can be used to generate test certificates see the included `bin/generate-etcd-certs` bash script

#### Configuration
`quantum` can be configured in any combination of three ways, cli arguments, environment variables, and configuration file entries. All configuration options are optional and have sane defaults, however runnig without parameters will force quantum to run in insecure mode. All three variants can be used in conjunction to allow for overriding variables depending on environment, the hierarchy is as follows:

- Cli parameters override all other methods
- Environment variables override configuration file entries but can be overriden by cli parameters
- Configuration file entries will override defaults but can be overriden by either cli parameters or environment variables

Run `quantum -h|--help` for a current list of configuration options or see the [wiki on configuration](https://github.com/Supernomad/quantum/wiki/Configuration) for further information.

### Development
Currently `quantum` development is entirely in go and utilizes a few BASH scripts to facilitate builds and setup. Development has been mostly done on ubuntu server 14.04, however any recent linux distribution with the following dependencies should be sufficient to develop `quantum`.

#### Development Dependencies
- bash
- tun kernel module must be enabled
  - please see your distributions information on how to enable it.
- docker
- docker-compose
- openssl
- go 1.7.x

#### Getting started
To get started developing `quantum`, run the following shell commands to get your environment configured and running.

``` shell
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
# Get build dependencies
$ go get -t -v ./...
# Run a build of quantum which will ensure your system is indeed up to date.
$ bin/build.sh
# Generate the required tls certificates
$ bin/generate-etcd-certs
# Setup docker networks for testing
$ docker network create --ipv6 --subnet=fd00:dead:beef::/64 --gateway=fd00:dead:beef::1 perf_net_v6
$ docker network create --subnet=172.18.0.0/24 --gateway=172.18.0.1 perf_net_v4
# Build the tester container
$ docker-compose build
# Start up the docker test bench
$ docker-compose up -d
# Wait a few seconds for initialization to complete
# Check on the status of the different quantum instances
$ docker-compose logs quantum0 quantum1 quantum2
# Run ping to ensure connectivity over quantum
$ docker exec -it quantum1 ping 10.10.0.1
```
After running the above you will have a single etcd instance and three quantum instances running. The three quantum instances are configured to run a quantum network `10.10.0.0/16`, with `quantum0` having a statically defined private ip `10.10.0.1` and `quantum1`/`quantum2` having DHCP defined private ip addresses.

#### Testing
To run basic unit testing and builds run:

``` shell
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
$ bin/build.sh
# For coverage analysis run with the argument `coverage`
$ bin/build.sh coverage
```

To do basic bandwidth based testing the `quantum` containers all have iperf3 installed. For example to test how much through put `quantum0` can handle from both `quantum1`/`quantum2`:

``` shell
# Assuming the three development quantum instances are started
# Start three shells

# In first shell start iperf3 server
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
$ docker exec -it quantum0 iperf3 -s -f M

# In second shell start iperf3 client in quantum1
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
$ docker exec -it quantum1 iperf3 -c 10.10.0.1 -P 2 -t 50

# In third shell start iperf3 client in quantum2
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
$ docker exec -it quantum2 iperf3 -c 10.10.0.1 -P 2 -t 50
```

### Contributing
Contributions are definitely welcome, if you are looking for something to contribute check out the current [road map](https://github.com/Supernomad/quantum/milestones) and grab an open issue in the next release.

Work flow:

- Fork `quantum` from develop
- Make your changes
- Open a PR against `quantum` on to develop
- Get your PR merged
- Rinse and Repeat

There are a few rules:

- All travis builds must successfully complete before a PR will be considered.
  - Changes to travis to get builds working are ok, if they are within reason.
- The `bin/build.sh` script must be run before the PR is open.
- Documentation is added for new user facing functionality

> An aside any PR can be closed with or without explanation or justification.

Commit message:

Added licensing and copyright notices to all files in the repo, as per advice from some colleagues

README.md, after:

# `quantum`
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Supernomad/quantum.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/Supernomad/quantum) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Supernomad/quantum/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/Supernomad/quantum?branch=develop) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/Supernomad/quantum)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/Supernomad/quantum) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/Supernomad/quantum?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/Supernomad/quantum)

`quantum` is a software defined network device written in go with global networking, security, and auto-configuration at its heart. It leverages the latest distributed data stores and state of the art encryption to offer fully secured end to end global networking over a single cohesive network. `quantum` is licensed under the MPL-2.0 and is free to use, for details see [here](https://github.com/Supernomad/quantum/blob/master/LICENSE)

> For more detailed information on the operation and configuration of `quantum` take a look at the [wiki](https://github.com/Supernomad/quantum/wiki).

### Running
`quantum` is designed to be essentially plug and play, however the default configuration will run `quantum` in an insecure mode and assumes each node running quantum is also running its own data store. In reality `quantum` **must** be run with TLS fully setup and configured with the backened datastore, in order to guarantee safe operation.

| Supported Backend Datastores | Supported OS's | Supported Providers |
|:------------------:|:----:|:---------:|
|[etcd](https://github.com/coreos/etcd)  | linux | AWS, GCE, Azure |
| | | Packet, Digital Ocean, Rackspace |
| | | Private datacenters, Private co-locations, and many more |

#### TLS/Security
[Etcd security configuration](https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/security.html) is very well documented and implemented. It is highly recommended to fully read and understand the security setup for etcd before considering quantum for production use. The security provided by `quantum` is intrinsicly linked to the security used by etcd, as the public certificates used for key generation are stored within etcd.

To ensure the secure operation of `quantum` the following must be true:
- Require TLS communication to etcd in all cases
- Etcd is fully secured from unathorized access
- Each server running `quantum` has its own unique TLS client certificate
- For added security each server should also have a unique username/password to access etcd with

> For a minimalistic configuration that can be used to generate test certificates see the included `bin/generate-etcd-certs` bash script

#### Configuration
`quantum` can be configured in any combination of three ways, cli arguments, environment variables, and configuration file entries. All configuration options are optional and have sane defaults, however runnig without parameters will force quantum to run in insecure mode. All three variants can be used in conjunction to allow for overriding variables depending on environment, the hierarchy is as follows:

- Cli parameters override all other methods
- Environment variables override configuration file entries but can be overriden by cli parameters
- Configuration file entries will override defaults but can be overriden by either cli parameters or environment variables

Run `quantum -h|--help` for a current list of configuration options or see the [wiki on configuration](https://github.com/Supernomad/quantum/wiki/Configuration) for further information.

### Development
Currently `quantum` development is entirely in go and utilizes a few BASH scripts to facilitate builds and setup. Development has been mostly done on ubuntu server 14.04, however any recent linux distribution with the following dependencies should be sufficient to develop `quantum`.

#### Development Dependencies
- bash
- tun kernel module must be enabled
  - please see your distributions information on how to enable it.
- docker
- docker-compose
- openssl
- go 1.7.x

#### Getting started
To get started developing `quantum`, run the following shell commands to get your environment configured and running.

``` shell
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
# Get build dependencies
$ go get -t -v ./...
# Run a build of quantum which will ensure your system is indeed up to date.
$ bin/build.sh
# Generate the required tls certificates
$ bin/generate-etcd-certs
# Setup docker networks for testing
$ docker network create --ipv6 --subnet=fd00:dead:beef::/64 --gateway=fd00:dead:beef::1 perf_net_v6
$ docker network create --subnet=172.18.0.0/24 --gateway=172.18.0.1 perf_net_v4
# Build the tester container
$ docker-compose build
# Start up the docker test bench
$ docker-compose up -d
# Wait a few seconds for initialization to complete
# Check on the status of the different quantum instances
$ docker-compose logs quantum0 quantum1 quantum2
# Run ping to ensure connectivity over quantum
$ docker exec -it quantum1 ping 10.10.0.1
```
After running the above you will have a single etcd instance and three quantum instances running. The three quantum instances are configured to run a quantum network `10.10.0.0/16`, with `quantum0` having a statically defined private ip `10.10.0.1` and `quantum1`/`quantum2` having DHCP defined private ip addresses.

#### Testing
To run basic unit testing and builds run:

``` shell
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
$ bin/build.sh
# For coverage analysis run with the argument `coverage`
$ bin/build.sh coverage
```

To do basic bandwidth based testing the `quantum` containers all have iperf3 installed. For example to test how much through put `quantum0` can handle from both `quantum1`/`quantum2`:

``` shell
# Assuming the three development quantum instances are started
# Start three shells

# In first shell start iperf3 server
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
$ docker exec -it quantum0 iperf3 -s -f M

# In second shell start iperf3 client in quantum1
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
$ docker exec -it quantum1 iperf3 -c 10.10.0.1 -P 2 -t 50

# In third shell start iperf3 client in quantum2
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/Supernomad/quantum
$ docker exec -it quantum2 iperf3 -c 10.10.0.1 -P 2 -t 50
```

### Contributing
Contributions are definitely welcome, if you are looking for something to contribute check out the current [road map](https://github.com/Supernomad/quantum/milestones) and grab an open issue in the next release.

Work flow:

- Fork `quantum` from develop
- Make your changes
- Open a PR against `quantum` on to develop
- Get your PR merged
- Rinse and Repeat

There are a few rules:

- All travis builds must successfully complete before a PR will be considered.
  - Changes to travis to get builds working are ok, if they are within reason.
- The `bin/build.sh` script must be run before the PR is open.
- Documentation is added for new user facing functionality

> An aside any PR can be closed with or without explanation or justification.

---
Copyright (c) 2016 Christian Saide <Supernomad>
